RUM use case: monitoring resource performance (#9224)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/browser/monitoring_resource_performance.md

---
title: Monitoring Resource Performance
kind: documentation
further_reading:
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/real-user-monitoring-with-datadog/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Real User Monitoring"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Explore your views within Datadog"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/analytics/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Build analytics upon your events"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/dashboards/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "RUM Dashboards"
---

> The RUM SDK collects resources and assets for every RUM view (i.e. page load): [XMLHttpRequest][1] (XHRs) and Fetch requests, but also images, CSS files, JavaScript assets, and font files. A RUM Resource event is generated for each one of them, with detailed timings and metadata.

Author: ```suggestion
The RUM SDK collects resources and assets for every RUM view (page load): [XMLHttpRequest][1] (XHRs) and Fetch requests, but also images, CSS files, JavaScript assets, and font files. A RUM Resource event is generated for each one of them, with detailed timings and metadata.
```

RUM Resources inherit from all the context related to the active RUM View at the time of collection.

## Link RUM Resources to APM traces

Connect your RUM data with corresponding backend traces to get end-to-end visibility into requests as they move across layers of your stack. This enables you to:

> * locate backend problems that resulted in a user-facing error
> * identify the scope of which users are affected by an issue within your stack
> * see complete end-to-end requests on the flame graphs, allowing you to seamlessly navigate between RUM and APM and back with precise context

Author: ```suggestion
* Locate backend problems that resulted in a user-facing error.
* Identify the extent to which users are affected by an issue within your stack.
* See complete end-to-end requests on the flame graphs, allowing you to seamlessly navigate between RUM and APM and back with precise context.
```

> See the [Connect RUM and Traces documentation page][2] for information about setting up this feature.

Author: ```suggestion
See [Connect RUM and Traces][2] for information about setting up this feature.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/browser/resource_performance_graph.png" alt="APM Trace information for a RUM Resource"  >}}

> ## Resource timing and metrics

Author: ```suggestion

## Resource timing and metrics
```

> Detailed network timing data for resources are collected from the Fetch and XHR native browser methods and from the [Performance Resource Timing API][3].

Author: ```suggestion
Detailed network timing data for resources is collected from the Fetch and XHR native browser methods and from the [Performance Resource Timing API][3].
```

| `resource.connect.duration`    | number (ns)    | Time spent establishing a connection to the server (connectEnd - connectStart)                                                            |
| `resource.ssl.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent for the TLS handshake. If the last request is not over HTTPS, this metric does not appear (connectEnd - secureConnectionStart) |
| `resource.dns.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent resolving the DNS name of the last request (domainLookupEnd - domainLookupStart)                                               |
| `resource.redirect.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent on subsequent HTTP requests (redirectEnd - redirectStart)                                                                      |
| `resource.first_byte.duration` | number (ns)    | Time spent waiting for the first byte of response to be received (responseStart - RequestStart)                                           |
| `resource.download.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent downloading the response (responseEnd - responseStart)                                                                         |

> **Note**: If you are having trouble collecting detailed timing for some resources, head to the [Resource timing and CORS section](#resource-timing-and-cors).

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you are having trouble collecting detailed timing for some resources, see [Resource timing and CORS](#resource-timing-and-cors).
```

---
title: Monitoring Resource Performance
kind: documentation
further_reading:
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/real-user-monitoring-with-datadog/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Real User Monitoring"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Explore your views within Datadog"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/analytics/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Build analytics upon your events"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/dashboards/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "RUM Dashboards"
---

The RUM SDK collects resources and assets for every RUM view (page load): [XMLHttpRequest][1] (XHRs) and Fetch requests, but also images, CSS files, JavaScript assets, and font files. A RUM Resource event is generated for each one of them, with detailed timings and metadata.

RUM Resources inherit from all the context related to the active RUM View at the time of collection.

## Link RUM Resources to APM traces

> Connect your RUM data with corresponding backend traces to get end-to-end visibility into requests as they move across layers of your stack. This enables you to:

Author: ```suggestion
To get even more complete, end-to-end visibility into requests as they move across layers of your stack, connect your RUM data with corresponding backend traces. This enables you to:
```

* Locate backend problems that resulted in a user-facing error.
* Identify the extent to which users are affected by an issue within your stack.
* See complete end-to-end requests on the flame graphs, allowing you to seamlessly navigate between RUM and APM and back with precise context.

> See [Connect RUM and Traces][2] for information about setting up this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up monitoring resource performance, [Connect RUM and Traces][2].
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/browser/resource_performance_graph.png" alt="APM Trace information for a RUM Resource"  >}}

## Resource timing and metrics

Detailed network timing data for resources is collected from the Fetch and XHR native browser methods and from the [Performance Resource Timing API][3].

| Attribute                              | Type           | Description                                                                                                                               |
|----------------------------------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `duration`                             | number         | Entire time spent loading the resource.                                                                                                   |
| `resource.size`                | number (bytes) | Resource size.                                                                                                                            |

> | `resource.connect.duration`    | number (ns)    | Time spent establishing a connection to the server (connectEnd - connectStart)                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.connect.duration`    | number (ns)    | Time spent establishing a connection to the server (connectEnd - connectStart).                                                           |
```

> | `resource.ssl.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent for the TLS handshake. If the last request is not over HTTPS, this metric does not appear (connectEnd - secureConnectionStart) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.ssl.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent for the TLS handshake. If the last request is not over HTTPS, this metric does not appear (connectEnd - secureConnectionStart).|
```

> | `resource.dns.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent resolving the DNS name of the last request (domainLookupEnd - domainLookupStart)                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.dns.duration`        | number (ns)    | Time spent resolving the DNS name of the last request (domainLookupEnd - domainLookupStart).                                              |
```

> | `resource.redirect.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent on subsequent HTTP requests (redirectEnd - redirectStart)                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.redirect.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent on subsequent HTTP requests (redirectEnd - redirectStart).                                                                     |
```

> | `resource.first_byte.duration` | number (ns)    | Time spent waiting for the first byte of response to be received (responseStart - RequestStart)                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.first_byte.duration` | number (ns)    | Time spent waiting for the first byte of response to be received (responseStart - RequestStart).                                           |
```

> | `resource.download.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent downloading the response (responseEnd - responseStart)                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.download.duration`   | number (ns)    | Time spent downloading the response (responseEnd - responseStart).                                                                        |
```

| `resource.url_path`        | string | The path part of the URL.                                                          |
| `resource.url_query` | object | The query string parts of the URL decomposed as query params key/value attributes. |
| `resource.url_scheme`      | string | The protocol name of the URL (HTTP or HTTPS).                                            |
| `resource.provider.name`      | string | The resource provider name. Default is `unknown`.                                            |
| `resource.provider.domain`      | string | The resource provider domain.                                            |
| `resource.provider.type`      | string | The resource provider type (for example `first-party`, `cdn`, `ad`, `analytics`).                                            |

## Identify third-party resources

RUM infers the name and category of the resource provider from the resource URL host part. If the resource URL host matches the current page URL host, the category is set to `first party`. Otherwise, the category will be `cdn`, `analytics`, or `social` for example.

## Resource timing and CORS

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
